Previously on "Dark Winds"...
The radio said a dead body
was found out by Rock Point.
that it might be B.J. Vines.
Don't make me ask. Joe.
He murdered our son. Emma.
He was gonna get away with it.
I couldn't let that happen.
Do you realize what you've done?
You've invited that man's spirit
into our home.
♪
What are you doing here?
I'm worried about you.
Yeah. well. I'm out
of your jurisdiction. Chee.
Haven't stopped thinking
about you since you left.
about how we left things.
about what I should've said.
Come home.
I know what you did.
I know why you did it.
I just can't prove it
in a court of law.
I hope one day
I can forgive him.
[Click]
I hope one day
I can forgive him.
[ominous music]
♪
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
[engine rumbling]
♪ ♪
♪ Who's sorry now?
[sipping]
[soft country music playing
on speakers]
Can I get another one of these?
No.
Fine.
♪ Whose heart is
achin' for breakin' ♪
What. did you think
we'd find him in a day?
It's been three. Billie.
[door bell jingles]
- I'm tired.
- I need to find him.
I don't know where else to look.
- God damn it. Billie!
I need to find him.
[foreboding music]
[distant dog barking]
[door bell jingling]
[indistinct conversation]
♪ ♪
[door bell jingling]
Hello. Albert.
What are you doing here?
Please come with me. Now.
[muffled speech]
That is not your milkshake.
Albert.
- Come on.
[gunshots]
[clattering]
[person screams]
♪
[gunshot]
[panting]
[gunshots]
[moaning]
[panting]
[gunshots. glass shattering]
[engine humming]
Go. go. go! Go!
♪
[moody guitar music]
[Bad Company's "Seagull"]
♪
[vocalizing]
[horse snorts]
♪
♪ Seagull. you fly ♪
♪ Across the horizon
♪ Into the misty morning sun ♪
[grunting]
♪ Nobody asked you
where you are going ♪
♪ Nobody knows
where you're from ♪
♪
♪ Here is a man ♪
♪ Asking the question ♪
♪ Is this really
the end of the world? ♪
[horse snorts]
♪ Seagull. you must have known
for a long time ♪
♪ The shape of things
to come ♪
♪ Now you fly
through the sky ♪
♪ Never asking why ♪
♪ And you fly all around ♪
♪ Till somebody ♪
♪ Shoots you down ♪
♪ Da. da. da. da. da down ♪
[wind howling]
[vocalizing]
♪
[speaking Diné]
♪ Seagull. you fly ♪
[gunshot]
♪ And you fly away today ♪
♪ And you fly away tomorrow ♪
[horse snorts]
♪ Seagull. go and fly ♪
[vocalizing]
♪ Fly to your tomorrow ♪
♪ Lead me to my sorrow ♪
♪ Fly
♪ ♪
[soft music]
Horses are fed.
I filled the water tank.
switched out
those two batteries.
It's gonna be a hot one today.
And you also cook. apparently.
Yeah.
There's so much
you don't know about me.
Oh. yeah? Like what?
I've also been known
to embellish.
Oh.
You got the big words
going on too.
Mm.
College.
It's not for everyone.
[giggles] Whatever.
Mm.
Go to work.
All right then.
See you tonight.
Mm-hmm.
[sighs] You sure
you don't wanna come?
It'd make Felix's day.
[sighs] So now
Felix is the carrot?
Well. it's either him or Bigman.
[chuckles]
I'll let you know
if anything changes.
How about that?
You know you can't just
feed horses
for the rest of your life.
can you?
No.
That's what I keep
you around for.
Well. if that's
the price of admission.
I'll start pulling extra shifts.
[speaking Diné]
[sighs]
[engine humming]
[engine stops]
Hey. now.
Gordo.
Looks like you
could use some help.
I wouldn't say no.
Goddamn neighbor of mine's
building a garage.
Every nail he pounds
into the frame.
he drops two on my driveway.
Plus. this damn thing's
about shot
from stripping these lug nuts.
Where are you headed?
Cabin down near Prescott.
right by the reservoir.
She likes to be
out on the water.
Calms her chi. the doctor says.
Come say hello?
- Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh. well.
Looks like we got
some company. B.
Well. hello.
It's been a while.
Yes. ma'am. it has.
You look... remind me
of your name again.
This is Joe Leaphorn. honey.
Joe. Joe.
Of course.
The last time I saw you.
it was at the church...
the rug auction.
You and Joyce came.
That must have been. like.
what. five years ago?
Yeah. yeah. That's right.
That's Henry you're thinking of.
This is Joe. Henry's son.
You saw him last year
when I was in the hospital.
when David came home.
Yeah. our son. David.
Ah.
As if I could ever
forget our son.
You are being so silly.
- [chuckling]
Oh. no. I can't help it.
Joe.
It's good to see you. ma'am.
[pensive music]
[grunting]
I'm sorry. Gordo.
Yeah.
When our boys left. it's almost
like we were teenagers again.
And I was really looking
forward to...
[sighs]
What we'd been robbed of.
When I was in college.
I had this old jalopy.
Rear tire kept losing air.
Not a puncture.
just a slow leak.
Every couple days.
I'd have to top it off.
One day. I moved into a house
a block from the school.
Well. didn't need
that car anymore.
Next morning. I'd go out.
tire's as flat as a pancake.
[grunts]
First day I didn't need it.
damn thing just gave up.
[sighs]
She needs you
not to give up. Gordo.
whatever that looks like
here on out.
♪ ♪
[sniffs]
Yeah. you... you've
been doing some
deep thinking since I saw you.
Nothing holds air forever.
That's what I've been thinking.
♪ ♪
[door bell jingles. door opens]
♪ Reservation radio
listener you love ♪
♪ Handsome old man walking
nine miles to town ♪
Can I help you?
Do you have any maps?
Maps?
Uh. what kind of maps?
I don't know... road maps?
[sighs. clears throat]
Will this do?
I guess so.
Do you have any gum?
Yeah. I've got Jungle Burst
there. spearmint bubble gum.
- Spearmint.
- All right.
That'll be a buck.
Well. thank you.
Thank you.
[tense music]
[sighs]
♪ ♪
The frick is this?
[muffled shouting]
♪ ♪
[engine grinds. turns over]
[engine revving]
♪ ♪
[vehicle approaching]
[engine stops. car door opens]
[horse neighs]
[car door slams]
Joe. that you?
Yeah.
Can you hand me that oil pan?
I brought you some meat.
Thanks.
[horse whinnying]
Don't think I don't know
what you're doing. though.
What. I can't be happy
that you're back?
[chuckles] You won't be happy
until I'm back in uniform.
That's what this is about.
You got Chee working on me.
and now you too.
[sighs]
What is it?
I'm retiring. Bern.
Right.
That's not the first time
I've heard that.
No. it's real this time.
Paperwork's in.
Captain Largo's aware.
Come fall. I'm gone.
To where?
Los Angeles?
[sighs]
You know. Emma left
for a reason. Joe.
I'm not sure you trying
to move out there
is gonna make her
change her mind.
She left because she didn't
wanna be with the guy
I was anymore. Bern.
I don't either.
Joe.
- Listen. it's just...
it's time for a change.
New blood. new ways of doing
things. new leadership.
[pensive music]
Who?
No!
What?
Uh... [sighs]
No.
Just think about it.
I don't have to think about it.
I mean. Chee's been here.
I left. and I'm not...
I'm not sure
tapping me for the...
I am not saying he is incapable.
He's a good cop. well-trained.
He's serious.
I've come to realize you
cannot separate spirituality
from upholding the law here.
You understand the land.
the people who live on it.
He's still working
on that part. Bern.
Yeah.
I...
♪ ♪
I don't... I don't know. Joe.
[sighs] Really?
Yeah.
You're the right choice.
♪ ♪
[sighs]
If you don't know why now...
You will.
[engine turns over]
♪ ♪
[horse whinnying]
[light music]
♪ ♪
[phone ringing]
This is going in effect today?
I have dinner plans
with someone.
Well. you're just gonna
have to explain to your date
the vicissitudes
of tribal police work
don't always jibe
with having a social life.
What does he mean. vicissitudes?
I would reschedule.
All right.
from the "Time Flies" file.
the Wash-O-Mat reported someone
stole the wall clock.
Bigman. want that one?
I'll make sure
I'll dust for prints.
Wapi Johnson says UFOs have
been visiting his pasture.
stealing his sheep again.
- [snickering]
Might need one of you
to. uh. camp out over there
for a few nights.
see what's really going on.
Okay.
Well. it looks like
a 16-year-old girl.
Billie Tsosie. just ran away
from St. Catherine's
three days ago.
Yeah. All right.
- Whoo.
[clapping]
All right. settle down.
We need to make sure she's safe.
So let's keep a lookout.
5'7". slight build. last seen
wearing her school uniform.
Let's put out some
feelers. all right?
That's it.
[speaking Diné]
[both speaking Diné]
[phone ringing]
Request forms
for when we need time off?
The times. they are
a-changin'. Natalie.
Hmm.
Didn't expect to see
you back for a few days.
Any luck?
A few rabbits. deer.
Where were you exactly?
[chuckles] That's a nice try.
I tell you. half the rez
will be hunting my spot.
I'm gonna go head out
to St. Catherine.
see about that runner.
Yeah. I'll go with you.
[phone ringing]
How'd it go out there?
I'm not talking
about the hunting.
Long periods of nothing
punctuated by moments
of nothing.
So does it help.
long periods of nothing?
I don't know.
Something weird
did happen. though.
Oh. yeah?
I was tracking a buck.
real mature. broad neck.
rack the size
of a goddamn chandelier.
So I had it in my scope.
Right when I was
about to pull the trigger.
it just turns and stares at me.
like it understood
why I was there.
like it was his time.
Telling you. Joe. no matter
who you are. where you stand...
[playful music]
♪ ♪
Well. those are words
to live by.
That's what I do.
[school bell rings]
Second time this month
she's up and run.
Her grandda usually returns her
to us. but she's a wild one.
And three days gone
with no word from him
tells me this time is different.
And where does her grandpa live?
Way up north of Sheep Springs.
Well. if she's on foot.
she'll never make it
in this heat.
Exactly why I called you.
That's her with her grandda.
[footsteps approaching]
[sighs] Girls. this is
Lieutenant Leaphorn
and Sergeant Chee
of the Navajo Tribal Police.
I told them that if anyone
knows where Billie is.
it's one of you.
Good morning.
all:
You won't be doing Billie
any favors by not telling
these officers what you know.
We all want her back
and safe. don't we?
Sister. can we have
a few minutes alone with them?
Do you think
that's wise. Lieutenant?
I think it might be. yes.
Billie lives with her grandpa
up north of Sheep Springs.
Well. that's a good four or
five days from here on foot.
Longer if she stays
off the main roads.
And if she's not on the main
roads. she's in the desert.
It's easy to get lost
out there. hurt.
She's not lost.
[suspenseful music]
♪ ♪
Does she have any other
family here on the rez
besides her grandpa?
Is she close to anybody
in her clans?
You know if she has a boyfriend?
Your friend could die out there.
We don't know where she is.
You don't know or won't tell?
♪ ♪
[clears throat]
You have phone privileges
here. right?
Hmm?
You think of something.
just call me.
Nobody will know you did. okay?
[speaking Diné]
♪ ♪
[wind chimes tinkling]
They never get easier. do they?
- Who?
- Girls. women.
[car door slams]
You talk to them.
they talk to you.
But they never tell you
what they're really thinking.
We're just meant to go through
life perennially in the dark?
Yeah. you gotta learn
to read between the lines.
- Oh. yeah?
How long does that take?
I'll let you know
when I get there.
Currently on chapter 3
of "My Wife Left Me
and I Still Don't
Understand Why."
[sighs]
♪ I'm in love ♪
I recall.
She bought a pack of gum
and a tourist map.
Tourist map.
Maybe it was for the guy.
What guy?
A Indian guy.
Early 20s maybe?
- Navajo?
- Maybe. Think so.
Real slick.
the way he was dressed.
Not from around here.
Are you sure
he's not from around here?
Car had California plates.
Maybe he's from California.
What kind of car?
Red. two tone kind of thing.
Probably back
in California by now.
But if you're
going to California.
why do you need a map
of the Navajo Nation?
Ah.
That's why you guys wear the
badge. I guess. huh? [chuckles]
This guy. did it
seem like she knew him
or like she was hitching a ride?
No. they knew
each other for sure.
Bit of a reunion?
Not a very happy one either.
They were fighting.
Didn't like that
one bit. or him.
[tense music]
All right. Thanks. Roger.
If you think of anything else.
give us a call.
See him again. keep him here.
Will do.
[speaking Diné] Hello.
Looking for anything
in particular?
All my jewelry is
half off today.
[door bell jingling]
Probably make you a deal on
that rug. if you're interested.
Let me know.
♪ ♪
[birds cawing]
When we get back.
put an APB out on the car.
Tomorrow morning. we'll drive
out to Ashie Begay's.
see if he knows anything
about this
slick dressed guy
from California.
Copy that.
[ominous music]
♪ ♪
[soft music]
Where's Henry?
Flagstaff.
To pick up a fixture
for the front door.
Finally getting around
to fixing that. huh?
[distant dogs barking]
I was hoping he'd be here.
I wanted him to hear this too.
I'm retiring. Mom.
What brought you
to this decision?
I've been thinking
about it for a while.
Spending time in the mountains.
not just hunting but sweating.
trying to figure
some things out.
[distant dogs barking]
You remember the deer meat
Emma's family
prepared for our wedding?
[speaking Diné]
How neatly they wrapped it.
how beautiful Emma looked
in her rug dress that day...
- Mm-hmm.
Carrying the ceremonial
basket with the mush.
And I remember thinking
she would be good for you.
She was.
When your father
and I got married.
I thought I could change him
back to the man I knew.
before he went to the war.
It took me a long time
to figure out
he wasn't going to change
just because I wanted him to.
I don't know how
you stayed with him.
In those days.
that's what people did.
But even if they didn't.
I would have stayed for you...
[speaking Diné]
Well. maybe that's
one of the reasons Emma left.
'cause she realized
she couldn't change me.
She no longer had JJ
to tie her to me. so.
[speaking Diné]
♪ ♪
What were you doing
at St. Catherine's?
We got a runner who
lives up with her grandpa
up near Sheep Springs.
I'm gonna head
out there tomorrow.
Roger saw her with this dude.
California plates.
had a bad feeling about him.
Oh. I see that look.
You wish you'd been there.
Aren't you worried
about how this would work?
If I came back?
No.
I'm not a mind reader. Bern.
Are we even
in the same relationship?
Okay. okay.
Tell me what I should
be worried about.
and I'll be worried.
[pensive music]
[sighs]
What if we're working
on the same case.
and we have a disagreement?
I don't wanna be
in competition with you.
Simple. We take it to Joe.
What if I make a mistake?
What if I do?
What if I make a mistake
that gets you hurt?
♪ ♪
Hey.
[sighs]
♪ ♪
I don't wanna mess this up.
Bern.
You're not gonna
mess anything up.
And I'm sorry for what
you went through down there.
I know it's rattled you.
but that isn't
gonna happen here.
Nobody's got
any secrets around here.
Nobody's gonna betray you.
And I'm here.
Okay.
And I've got you.
♪ ♪
[Sharon Burch's "Sacred Wind"]
[horses whinnying]
♪ ♪
[birds cawing]
[singing in Diné]
♪ ♪
- Mr. Begay.
[speaking Diné]
I'm Lieutenant Leaphorn.
This is Sergeant Chee.
I know who you are.
Well. we wanted to ask
you a few questions
about your granddaughter.
Billie.
Well. she ran away from school.
Wondering if she
was here or been here
in the last three days?
She's been gone three days.
and you're just coming here now?
I'll find her myself.
Did your granddaughter
have a boyfriend. Mr. Begay?
I don't know.
Drives a red two-tone sedan.
California plates.
She was seen at the Trading
Post with a young Navajo guy.
described as a slick dresser.
not from around here.
They drove off
together in that car.
You know him?
[sighs]
It might be her cousin.
Albert Gorman.
[suspenseful music]
And who's he?
Criminal.
My daughter's boy.
Took him and his brother
to Los Angeles a long time ago.
He forgot where he came from.
What about Billie's parents?
She doesn't have any.
Thanks for letting me know.
I'll find her myself.
Hold... hold... hold on.
Did you know Albert Gorman
was back on the rez?
No.
Can you think of any reason
he'd be here.
why she'd leave school
to be with him?
None good.
All I know is. if she's
with Albert. she's in trouble.
♪ ♪
[speaking Diné]
[camera shutter clicking]
♪ ♪
[pensive music]
[fire crackling]
[breathes deeply]
[sighs]
[phone ringing]
[cheers and applause]
Whoo. Bern!
[shouting. whooping]
Okay!
Well. well.
Look what the cat dragged in.
It's nice to have
you back. Sergeant.
It's good to see you. too. Chee.
You buying this?
Not even a little bit.
Oh!
Almost as if I never left.
Get settled and we'll bring
you up to speed when we're at...
Hey. you find that
St. Catherine's runner yet?
[phone ringing]
Well. somebody's got loose lips.
Not yet. no.
Well. I'd like to go out there.
We've already
been out there. so.
Well. I know you have.
but I haven't.
With all due respect.
Lieutenant.
You hearing this. Joe?
Not back 60 seconds.
and she's already chalked up
her first "all due respect."
- Mm.
Oh. thank you.
- Impressive.
- Joe?
- [speaking Diné]
Forgot what a pleasure it is
to work with you two.
Go.
Maybe you'll have
better luck than we did.
[pensive music]
♪ ♪
Hannah. come with me.
The policewoman wants
to talk with Jane.
I'm glad to see
you've made something
of yourself. Bernadette.
It's very nice of you
to notice. Sister.
Hmm.
Hey.
You gotta wipe those first.
I know you're just here
because of Billie.
Do you know where she is?
It's weird how people
only care once we disappear.
Well. guess what?
When I used to disappear
from here. nobody cared.
Oh. and I'm supposed
to feel sorry for you?
Well. you don't have to
feel sorry for me. Jane.
You heard what
Sister Regina said.
I made something of myself.
You know. I used to think
it was so cruel.
We'd be up there starving.
All this food down here.
we weren't allowed to eat it.
Well. that hasn't changed.
♪ ♪
You know. there were
nights I'd lie in bed.
and I swear I could
hear frybread sizzling.
I could smell it.
First place I'd go
when I ran out of here
was the Chat 'N Chew.
Oh. their frybread tastes
just like my grandma's.
just a greasy slab of mutton.
Mmm. mmm. mmm.
How about you?
French fries.
Ketchup?
- Extra salt.
Oh. and they have to be hot.
Fugitive fries.
- Extra salt.
- Extra hot.
- Right.
[both chuckle]
How about Billie?
Where's she go
when she gets out?
Well. she...
um...
there's a diner.
She likes the milkshakes there.
[engine humming]
♪ Just as plain as day ♪
♪ Ah. well.
a-here comes trouble ♪
♪ That I never
thought I'd see ♪
You're telling me
Leroy just disappeared?
I don't know what
you want me to do.
[phone ringing]
The rez is big. Albert.
I want you to help me find him.
♪ You talk
about heartaches ♪
♪ Where in the world
ya been? ♪
♪ I ain't had the miseries ♪
Hon?
You have the prettiest ears of
any woman I ever set eyes on.
Have I told you that?
You've complimented every
part of me at some point. shug.
Well. I'd love
them ears a whole lot more
if they heard that phone.
Oh. [laughs]
All right.
Redhouse.
Yeah. She's here.
You wanna talk to her?
[phone rings]
- Navajo Tribal Police.
This is Sergeant Chee.
Redhouse Diner.
Billie's there
right now with Gorman.
- Where are you?
- St. Catherine's.
I'm on my way.
Well. how you know it's them?
Redhouse Diner.
Billie and Gorman.
Bern's headed there now.
[tense music]
[engines humming]
[tires screech]
[engines stop]
[unsettling music]
♪ ♪
[distorted singing]
[door creaking]
Go around back.
[distorted singing]
♪ ♪
Bernie. you see this?
Yeah.
[distorted singing]
♪ ♪
We got shells.
Navajo Tribal Police!
Go.
♪ ♪
[electricity buzzing]
Welcome home.
[sighs]
♪ ♪
We've got two problems.
First. we have a known criminal
on the run
with a 16-year-old girl.
♪
Two. we got a trained killer
who wants to finish the job.
Where would she go?
This city is huge.
We got us a lead.
Big cases put everyone on edge.
This case is big.
If that girl talks.
this whole thing unravels.
♪
I have a surprise for you.
A lot of pieces to this.
I'm not asking you to lie.
It feels like you are.
How long have you been
keeping this from me?
I decide who's safe
and who's not.
This isn't a game.
Forget about all this.
The last thing you want
is me worried about you.
You know where to find me.
♪
Come and knock at my door.
[tense music]
♪ ♪
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today